# Data Science Portfolio

### Projects

## Applying Machine Learning in Archeology
This project was focused on understanding how different heat treatment strategies emerged around 162,000. The goal of this project was to predict the heat treatment type of different silcrete materials that were used to make stone tool artifacts from the Archeological site Pinnacle Point in Mossel Baai South Africa. Understanding how and when different heat treatment strategies of raw materials emerged can help build a clearer picture of complex tool manufacturing in the Middle Stone Age of Africa. To start this project the first step was to define the hypothesized heat treatment strategies from this era and site, which are the following, Unheated, Direct, Ember, and Sandbath.  Unheated is just the raw silcrete which is sometimes processed before heat treatment, Unheated silcrete is a very poor material for making stone tools due to its makeup. Direct is the process of putting the raw material into an active fire and applying high heat directly to the nodule, this approach is the least complex and applies heat very quickly which leads to the nodules having large cracks and often being poor quality for making stone tools. The next method is the Ember method where the fire is allowed to calm down into embers where the nodule of silcrete is then buried in the embers, this allows for a slower application of heat which leads to fewer cracks and better quality material for making stone tools. Finally, the Sandbath method is the most complex requiring complex and sustained fuel over multiple hours, this method leads to very high-quality material but requires multiple hours to time commitment and a large amount of resources to complete. These 3 heating strategies increase in complexity as well as resource demands but the benefits are much more effective stone tools, so a better understanding of the choice of heat treatment can help understand the development of stone tool industries and cognative leaps accocaited with them.
### Education

### Work Experience

